Tutorial Dialogue:

Ernie: Oh! Good morning, er…? 

Ernie: Who are you? You don’t seem familiar to these parts of the twilight zone. I should know, since this road is my assigned post…

Ef: It’s none of your concern. Do you know the fastest way to the trenches from here?

Ernie: !!!

Ernie: You appear out of nothing, then ask if I know the way to a place so highly fortified that they don’t even assign us lanterns in there… what a curious chance encounter you are!

Ernie: Do you have a name, at least, traveller? A two-way chat is quite hard without one, you know…

Ef: … Ef. And I have no time for a two-way chat. I must reach the trenches.

Ef tries to move onward. Ernie stops her by calling out to her.

Ernie: S-slow down! The pathway ahead is much darker than you could possibly imagine! It’s not safe for travellers from the daylight zone!

Ernie: Ef, was it? Hear out a little lantern, please?

Ef pulls back after a beat.

Ef: I’ve been in the darkness before. Many times… Let me show you, little one.

Tutorial to demonstrate Ef’s glowing abilities.

Ef: See? I can handle myself. Now, do you know how to-

Ernie: Y-yes, the trenches! My apologies for mistaking your abilities! However, I’m afraid I can’t tell you much at all… I can point you to the twilight zone, but not even my friends deep in the abyss know how to bypass the security there… why do you want to go to such a volatile place, anyway?

Ef: … If you don’t know, I’ll be on my way.

Ef makes to leave, this time passing Ernie. He stops her one last time.

Ernie: W-wait!! At least, before you go… are you seeking an audience with the queen?

Ef: …

Ernie: If you are seeking an end to her tyranny… you have my support, and that of all the other lanterns.

Ef: …Understood. I’ll see what I can do.

Ernie: there’s a side road not far from here that will take you into the twilight zone undetected by the queen’s people. It’s hard to find in the dark, but… well, that doesn’t seem to be a problem for you. Good luck, Ef!

Ef: … Right.

Ef leaves and gameplay resumes.


Hyde dialogue

Hyde: M-mmhh…? My tired eyes must be playing tricks on me… a traveller, in this day and age…!

Ef: Is it that much of a surprise?

Hyde: Why… yes, yes it is, young one! Long have I resided in the twilight zone… yes, even before the queen was but an ephyra, and her father before her… I recall when a squid family were considered the true royal bloodline! Hah hah hah…

Ef: (I don’t have time for the spiel of an old man…)

Ef: That’s not important right now. I’m trying to reach the midnight zone. Do you know anything?

Hyde: Th-the midnight zone…! Woe befall me, I would rather be anywhere but there! The barreleyes… their feasting… retirement is a blessing to an aging fellow such as I. See-

Ef: I’m going. Not you. Just tell me how to reach it.

Hyde: Hrmm…! My deepest regrets, young one. I lost myself in the past… I have not been for a short while now, but buffets like us fade into the background as the midnight zone consumes us… we hear things the higher-ups don’t want to be heard!

Ef: your point…?

Hyde: (he says some shit about the puzzle here)

Ef: Huh. That’s really helpful of you.

Hyde: See, look? These old zooids can still be helpful yet! Hah hah hah…

Ef: One last thing.

Hyde: Hrmm?

Ef: … I’m sorry they used you in that way. I’ll put it right, somehow.

Hyde: Such a kind soul you are, young one. When I was but a fresh siphon, I-

Ef: (…Best that I leave before he traps me here in pointless rabble forever.)


Vishi dialogue

Vishi: Surprise!!! Did it shock you to see an amphipod in the dark?

Ef: It is a little confusing. I thought your species didn’t possess bioluminescence.

Vishi: We still don’t! But when one works in the darker zones often, day or night, safety is essential! My dad invented this nice coat, and now we can work any time, any day, without fear of hazardous conditions, you see!

Ef: You work in the darker zones? That’s new.

Vishi: But of course! The queen desired new monuments, you see, so she called upon the lower people to fulfil her requests! I believe they’ll look most beautiful when complete, you’ll see!

Ef: … Could you tell me how to reach the midnight zone? Preferably avoiding the main road.

Vishi: Want to catch a sneak peek for yourself, do you? I see… Lucky for you, this amphipod is always trying to find the fastest route to work! (Puzzle shit)

Ef: Thanks. I’ll check out your monument. In return for your help, could I ask one thing of you?

Vishi: But of course! I live to serve, you see!

Ef: … Go home and rest for the day.


Ella: …

Ef: …

Ella …

Ef: …

Ella: …?

Ef: (Even in the time I was gone, coelacanths didn’t develop the ability of speech…)

Ef: (…Hm? Is she carrying something?)

Ef: (This looks like <puzzle key>… I don’t think she’ll mind if I borrow it. I’ll bring it back once this is all over, I promise…)


Miette: *Gasp* Intruder spotted! Heeheehee! Intruder spotted!!! Hiiiiii, unknown squid from the twilight zone~

Ef: You’re quite the character. Do you know the most efficient way to reach the aby-

Miette: Ah-ah! Not so fast, intruder squid! Come a little closer… Don’t worry, I won’t bite… heehee!

Ef: Your necklace of teeth says otherwise. I’ve met your kind before.

Miette: And?

Ef: You bite. A lot.

Both: …

Miette: Gah, fiiiiiine. If you already know, why are you still over there and not helping me get this over and done with quicker? Speed up the process a little?

Ef: Unfortunately, my mission requires me to keep all my tentacles intact. Is there anything I can offer you in place of one?

Miette: You have food?

Ef: … Sadly not.

Miette: Then what do you… mmm… actually, you could help me with one thing. Just a small favour, and no eating! No chewing, no munching! You’re free to go!

Ef: And that would be…?

Miette: My adorable little siblings have been playing by the border, and ma wanted me to come pick them up… but they’ve up and run off! If you find them for me, I’ll leave you alone… heehee.

Ef: They’re not too far from here, right?

Miette: They’re still young’uns, they haven’t even got legs yet! You’ll find them, no effort.

Ef: … Fine. If it’s as easy as you say.

Miette: Yay! Yippee! I knew I could trust you!


Sibling Dialogue

Sibling 1: W-who are you?

Ef: An acquaintance of your sister. She says play time is over.

Sibling 1: Aww… but we were playing hide-and-seek! It was MY job to find everyone!

Ef: And you can do it again tomorrow, okay?

Sibling 1: Fiiiiiiiiine…



Sibling 2: Hey! Don’t stand so close to me! I’m trying to hide right now!

Ef: Your sister sent me to pick you up. Play time’s done for today.

Sibling 2: Whaaaaat?! But I need to prove I can hide better than my youngest sibling!

Ef: Really?

Sibling 2: Yeah! I’m the oldest, but I’m outsmarted by my littlest sibling every time… It’s so lame!

Ef: You’ll get a chance to prove you can beat them tomorrow.

Sibling 2: Alright…



Sibling 3: …

Ef: Are you alright?

Sibling 3: shhhhhhh! I’m trying to blend in!

Ef: Hide-and-seek is over for today. Your sister’s been sent to pick you up.

Sibling 3: Wait, really?

Ef: …Yes?

Sibling 3: Yay!!! Miette is here!!! Miette!!!



Sibling 4: Hello?

Ef: Miette has been sent to pick you up. It’s getting late, you can play tomorrow.

Sibling 4: Miette…? Ah…

Ef: Is there a problem?

Sibling 4: Not really… I love Miette, but she does… scare me just a little…

Ef: I can understand that. She tried to eat me just now.

Sibling 4: Exactly! She can be so mean!!!


Lucy dialogue

Lucy: Ohohoho! A new face in the midnight zone! The neighbours will be hearing about this over a fresh siphonophore buffet!

Ef: I’m sure. Could you help me find some lost angler-clusterwink children? Or at least a pathway into the abyss?

Lucy: Oho? You think a woman of such stature as I would deign to advise a lowly daylight-dweller such as you? Perish the thought! You’d best know your status, young lady. Honestly, kids these days just don’t seem to respect authority, just the other day-

Ef: (I have a gut feeling this conversation is a lost cause…)


Ghost shark dialogue

Ghost Shark: Hmmmmmm… What a cuuuuurious little thing you are. Would you humour me for juuuuuuust one moment?

Ef: My apologies, I’m afraid I’m busy. Have you seen a young angler-clusterwink come this way?

Ghost Shark: Ahhhhhh, I’m afraid my answer is “no”. Veeeeeery few creatures like to pass a ghost shark, you see. Our reputation is… unfoundedly so, but raaaaaather negative.

Ef: I see… one moment.

Ef turns her light on. The child is visible just behind the shark.

Ef: As I thought. You’re a poor liar, especially by your species’ standards.

Ghost Shark: Hmhmhmmmmm… A glowing squid? Cuuuuuuriouser and cuuuuuuriouser! I simply must take both of you home… what a feast I can make with squid meat and snail trail garnish! Pooooooor traveller, setting foot in the midnight zone without aaaaaaadequate preparation. Didn’t your father tell you not to trust strangers?

Ef: My father died before I was born.

Ghost Shark: My condolences.

Ef: It happens to all firefly squids. Don’t worry about it.

Miette: Now!!!

Miette pops up behind Ghost Shark and takes her sibling away from him (can just appear/disappear, doesn’t need to slide in/out)

Ghost Shark: Whyyyyyy, you…!

Ef: Don’t take your eyes off the prize next time. You’re a disgrace to your fellow kin.

Ef swims off past Ghost Shark. Scenes continues a distance away.

Miette: Huff… thanks for distracting him, intruder squid!! If I’d lost little buddy here, I’d be besides myself…

Ef: His fault for not taking his biology classes.

Miette: Please, intruder squid! Thanks aren’t enough… If I could do one more teeny-tiny favour for you…!

Ef: … There is one thing, if it’s not too much trouble.

Miette: ?

Ef: Sneak me into the abyss.

Miette: mmm? Piece of cake! It’s super grimy and miserable down there so I don’t go, but I do know where you might be able to find a tiny little hole in the fence…

Ef: Really? I thought that was a long shot to ask.

Miette: It’s natural after having to round up my siblings so much! By the way…

Ef: …?

Miette: What’s your name? It feels kind of icky calling you an intruder now, heehee…

Ef: …It’s Ef. Nice to make your acquaintance.

Miette: Hi, Ef! Aw, now I can’t bring myself to eat your for at least another month…

Ef: It’s an honour. I’ll come visit, once my business down below is done.

Miette: Yay!!! See you later, Ef!

Ef: You too.


Lord Inklord IV dialogue

Lord Inklord IV: HALT!! INTRUDER!!

Ef: Finally, a familiar face. What a competent guard you are.

Lord Inklord IV: How dare you speak to me that way, Firefly?! You filthy traitor, showing your face once again after all this time… Your audacity sickens me! But you shall go no further! In the-

Ef: -name of the queen, you shall make me pay for my sins? You never found a new boast?

Lord Inklord IV: A knight of such power and dedication as mine needs no better boast! Now behold! My bone blades remain sharp as ever!

???: Psst! This way!

Ef: Quite the welcome I’m getting…

Ef runs left.


Umbra dialogue

Umbra: Firefly? Is it really you?

Ef: I’m… more used to Ef now. But yes.

Umbra: So, my intuition proved true, after all… you were never the type to run with your tail between your legs. What brought you back now, of all times?

Ef: I’m here to set things right. I spent enough time wallowing in guilt. It got boring.

Umbra: I can’t say you ever found your emotions particularly “fun” in the first place.

Ef: So, any reason you saved me from our friend Inklord? He’s not wrong about me.

Umbra: Same reason. The abyss is boring without you.

Ef: Is that all…?

Umbra: Sure it is. That aside, you want access to the queen, right? That won’t happen as long as Inklord is around.

Ef: It’s unusual for them to be this… aggressive. Boisterous, sure, but reasoning with them should be possible…

Umbra: It’s the light. It’s been… changing everyone down here. Inklord has always cared for the queen, but now they’re a paranoid freak over it. They won’t let you back in over their dead body.

Ef: More sneaking then, I suppose… Any help you can offer? Or have you been changed too?

Umbra: When has my word ever let you down?

Ef: More time than I can count on my tentacles.

Umbra: I know of a way in. But you have to prove to me that I can trust you. Last time we saw you, you failed us. Prove to me you won’t fail me again.

Ef: And how do I do that, Bureaucrat of the Saltwater Kingdom?

Umbra: No need for that… Just help me with something. It’s about Ollie.

Ef: That silly guy?

Umbra: Yes. The queen’s condition has… affected him more than me. You’ll realise when you see him. Just help him out a little. I can’t from my position.

Ef: … I’ll see what I can do. I need to see this mission to the end.

Umbra: Of course. You’ll find Ollie over that way. Don’t let me down like before.

Jolly Ollie dialogue

Jolly Ollie: What do you call a fish with no eyes? A fsh!

Ef: I’ve heard that one before, Ollie.

Jolly Ollie: We need a more organised cross-species currency system… When I asked Inklord if I could borrow some money, they said “I can give you five squid”!

Ef: Ollie…

Jolly Ollie: My jokes are so funny, I can’t breathe!

Ef: OLLIE!

Jolly Ollie:… Firefly?

Ef: The one and only.

Jolly Ollie: Apologies for the bad jokes! I just can’t kelp myself!

Ef: (It’s like I’m not here… How can I help him in this state?)

Ef: Maybe some kind of distraction to his senses… That might bring him some clarity!

Cue quest to find Vishi

Vishi: Bet you weren’t expecting to find me again! I didn’t choose the grind life, I’m afraid… it chose me, you see!

Ef: Your timing is… actually impeccable. Ollie loves the smell of amphipods.

Vishi: Eh???

Ef: Don’t worry, you’re not in any danger. He gets fired if he actually eats kingdom denizens… at least, that’s the last I knew.

Vishi: ??????

Ef: Just come with me. I have an assignment for the queen and she’d love for you to participate.

Vishi: Ah! I see! But of course!

Cue revisit to Ollie

Jolly Ollie: So the plankton spoke to the sea ameno… anenom… amem…

Ef: This is getting depressing. Ollie, I brought your favourite smell.

Jolly Ollie: Anano… ah? This smell…! An amphipod hasn’t passed me by since Firefly was still here!

Ef: And here she is.

Jolly Ollie: Firefly?! You brought this amphipod to me?! So I wasn’t hallucinating after all!

Ef: You’ve hallucinated me before?

Jolly Ollie: Many times! But with this smell… only you know how much I love the smell of amphipods! Please, Firefly, you must help us! The queen, she-

Ef: I’m aware. I’m here to save her. If you can keep your clarity for a little longer, I’ll stop this for good. I’ll set things right.

Jolly Ollie: If it’s you asking, Firefly, I can cling on by every sucker available!

Ef: Even from underneath your hat?

Jolly Ollie: ESPECIALLY from underneath my hat!

Ef: I’m glad. Could you, erm…

Vishi: It’s Vishi!

Ef: If you could stay with him, Vishi, I’d greatly appreciate it.

Vishi: I’ll keep him level for a century if it’s for the queen, you’ll see!


Final talk with Umbra

Ef: He’s in a much better state, at least for now. He didn’t even seem to know I was exiled.

Umbra: Do you think official matters are the business of court jesters, then?

Ef: Right. That aside, I believe you have a promise to fulfil.

Umbra: But of course. I’ll take you to the palace doors, out of Inklord’s sight.

Ef: I appreciate it. Can I ask just one more thing?

Umbra: I see no reason why you couldn’t.

Ef: All orders from the queen have to authorised by you. The monument construction, the siphonophore buffet… did you really approve of them?

Umbra: …

Ef: I’ll finish this, Umbra. To save the queen, and to save you too.
